Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about the async await.
All right, so what are what is this async and what is the await key word that is only permitted inside
of the issing now?
And it this is all these two pages of resources that are available for you inside this file, right
inside the async a lecture file.
We're going to go over it as the MDN explains it.
And then we are going to go ahead and we are going to talk about it in our own language.
So an async and async function is a function.
Declare what?
The async key.
So when you put async in front of any function that becomes an async function.
Async functions are instances of the async function constructor and we know what constructors are.
Right.
And the await key word.
Keep this in mind is permitted within them.
Now the async we await keywords enable asynchronous promise based behavior to be written in a cleaner
style of avoiding the need to explicitly configure promised change.
So asynchronous async away.
They also implement
promises under the hood.
All right.
But they provide even a much simpler syntax for us to make HTTP requests.
So we learned how we can issue requests with the H.R. object.
That was way number one.
And when we talked about the callbacks and the promises, we basically like modernized our code further.
And then we learned a new a newer method, which was the API to make requests.
Right.
And now we are learning another method, which is a syncopate to make requests, to make requests.
So what is this now?
What I'm going to talk about is this async function constructor, because all async functions are instances.
Keep this in mind.
Instances of this function constructor, the async function constructor creates a new async function
object.
So it is actually an object.
Right?
So objects have properties, objects have methods.
In JavaScript, every asynchronous function is actually an async function object.
Right.
So whenever we create an async function, it is, it is actually meaning.
It actually means that we are instantiating an async function constructor.
All right.
So keep this in mind that what do we what we are doing under the hood, we are using constructors under
the hood.
Keep this in mind.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is add one more thing that the await key word and I'm going to come down here.
Here is this thing that you need to keep in mind.
The key word is only valid inside the async function.
If you use it outside, you're going to see a syntax error.
So keep this in mind as well.
If you want to read more about it, you can just go over this spec one more time.
You can go over another.
The docs that was in the spec, the spec is on a coma.
But if you want to go over the documentation, you can how you can.
These are the lengths you can go over there and you can read all about it.
But now we are going to explain this asynchronous async away in our own language.
Now, the async function is an asynchronous function that doesn't block the code execution's and it
is handled by the browser.
OK, so after a definition of the async away async function, it returns a promise.
OK, so when the when it returns a promise, we can use that then method.
And what it does is it is going to hold the variable assignment until the request is resolved.
When they're when the request is resolved, then it is going to assign the fetched value to the value
to the variable response.
And let's go ahead and let's take a look at this.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create a function and I'm going to say get posts.
There are no more objects.
Right?
We are done with those.
Now, this is a regular function.
What makes this function and a synchronous function is just go ahead and provide async the OK, just
make sure you type it correctly.
So just say async.
And now it has become an in synchronous function.
Very simple.
Right.
So what we are going to do is when you say async, you need to use a wait as well.
Async await what is the keyword is going to do the wait keyword.
I'm just going to write it through the key word.
We are going to fetch some data and I'm sure the syntax is similar to this is the.
That we used with this in Kuwait, now it is going to fetch content or data from ops from an API endpoint.
So let's go ahead and make this smaller, make this one bigger.
I don't want to zoom out.
Right.
That's why I'm switching this.
So the wait is going to fetch this data, but the wait is actually not going to fetch this data.
This fetch is going to grab this data for us.
What the await keyword has specifically designed to do is the await queue keyword is going to wait.
That's why it says a wait.
It is going to wait until all of the data is brought back to us.
And then when we say const.
CONSED response.
It is going to store it inside this variable, I'm going to I'm going to explain this one more time.
So the await keyword is going to await this request and not run this piece of code.
Of course, the Fed is going to make a request to this API endpoint, but the Fed is not going to do
anything else until that request is successfully completed.
And the aready status for and when the ready status for this await key word is going to assign what
comes from this API, what am I doing?
What comes from this is going to store it inside this response variable so we can access it.
So let's go ahead and log it.
And keep in mind, this is going to return.
A promise of this entire thing, in fact, is going to return the promise.
So let's consider Lagoa response.
And if I save it.
OK, and OK, so we are not calling this function, we need to call that function as well.
So I'm in here, I'm going to say get posts, just call it.
Let's wait for the response.
There we go.
This is our response.
And what am I?
I think that's OK.
So this is our response.
And if we come here and if you take a look at this response that we got and if you take a look at the
response that we got, they are identical.
Right?
We have a status, which is the status.
They are identical.
What does that mean?
It means if we want to grab this data.
What should we do?
We need to call the DA Jason method, so what I'm going to do in here is I'm going to create another
constant and I'm going to say posts data and we are going to say await response.
Response dart, Jason, and now we have successfully done three things we know the Jason method is going
to do three things for us.
All right.
The first thing is it is going to convert all our response to a Jason file.
And after that, it is going to read it.
And the third thing is it is going to pass it to something that JavaScript can understand.
All right, so if I were to say canceled blog posts, date and save it, we get our data 100 users.
So if you make a request to users, sorry, this is posts.
We get 100 posts.
Right.
So this is very, very simple, much simpler that we used to do.
So basically two lines of code.
I know we haven't actually gone through the process of catching and throwing errors, and that is what
we are going to complete in our next lecture, that how the error handling is going to work in the realm
of async away.
But it is very simple, right.
So what is this keyword is going to do here is it is going to wait until this Jason method does its
three things and then it is going to assign the value to the data.
Now you might ask, OK, this is waiting until something is completed and then it is going to do something.
Doesn't that sound like synchronous code rather than asynchronous code.
Now it is not synchronous, it is still asynchronous, but just in the context of this line of code,
it is just waiting until it gets the data because if it doesn't weight, the Post's data is not completed.
Just think of it as the reddest state is not for it is waiting until all the red states starts from
zero, then go one, two, three.
And when it reaches four and when it's completed, then it is going to assign this to this date to this
variable.
If it assigns it any time earlier, we are going to get an error because the red state is not yet for
we have not achieved the completion status.
Right.
And the other reason that this is not a this is not synchronous code, this is in fact asynchronous
code is that we could just test it so we can say cancel.
I'm just going to say two plus five and I'm going to do one down here.
So one before the function call and one after the function call in in here I'm going to say 50.
So if I were to save this, what should we see inside the console?
So inside the console we should see first this council log, then this one.
And because this async function is handed over to the browser, we should see it like like in the third
order.
So if I say it, we see seven this console log, we see twenty when this is so you can see that JavaScript
jumped over this one because this was handed over to the browser.
So JavaScript could go on and execute this line.
And when the browser was done, the browser handed it over back to JavaScript and JavaScript, logged
it to the console.
Very, very, very simple ideology in here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to use the DOT then method here as well, just to show you
that this if we go ahead and if I just go ahead and return the Post's data, what this is going to do
is it is going to return this entire block is going to return a promise.
All right.
So we know that this is going to return a promise.
We talked about that so we can use a dot then method.
So inside this dot, then I'm just going to say data.
And we are going to say can't.
Console log data, let's save it, and now we get the same result, right?
So you either called that caller there, but that's not actually the best way of doing it, because
this is where we call the data, where we get when the promise is resolved and then we can throw a catch
there when we promise is is rejected.
So this is actually the way that we are going to do it in our next election.
So see you guys that.